Added test plan for SYCL exception (#141)
KhronosGroup/SYCL-CTS: test_plans/exceptions.asciidoc

:sectnums:
:xrefstyle: short

= Test plan for exceptions

This is a test plan for the APIs described in SYCL 2020 section 4.13.2.
"Exception class interface"

== Testing scope

=== Device coverage

All of the tests described below are performed only on the default device that
is selected on the CTS command line.

== Tests

Every method should be checked for accordance to spec:

> * Method existance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Method existence
```

* Const correctness
* Type of result

> * Result for noexcept() operator

Reviewer: I'm not sure what you mean by this?

> === sycl namespace functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== SYCL namespace functions
```

==== make_error_code

> For every errc value check that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For every `errc` value check that:
```

* Result of the call should be equal to `std::error_code(errc)`
* `error_code::value` is equal to errc value passed
* `error_code::category` is equal to sycl_category()
* `error_code::default_error_condition()` is equal to
  `std::error_condition(errc, sycl::sycl_category())`

==== sycl_category()

For each of the following use-cases:

* using reference or copy of `error_category` retrieved at the function scope
* using static variable in the test namespace that is constructed from sycl_category()

>   and then copied

Reviewer 2: Looks like we have a reference to the abstract `std::error_category` class as result from the `sycl::sycl_category()`, so we cannot make a copy.
Instead of using static variable with a copy of value retrieved from sycl_category() I would suggest to:

- run all possible checks during construction of some object instance at global static scope, before `main()` and `TEST_NAME::run()`
- preserve results of all checks as boolean attributes of such object instance
- provide proper interpretation and failure output within `TEST_NAME::run()` using `util::logger` instance

provide checks under a separate test name:

* `error_category::name()` should return "sycl"
* For `sycl::errc::success` and any other one `errc` value `error_category::default_error_condition(errc)`
  is equal to `std::err_condition(errc, sycl::sycl_category())`
* For FULL conformance - same as bullet above but for all `errc` values

==== error_category_for()

* Check that function template exists.

If `SYCL_BACKEND_OPENCL` is defined run same checks as for sycl_category, but:

* `error_category::name()` should return "opencl"

> * for value = static_cast<sycl::errc_for<sycl::backend::opencl>>(0)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* for `value = static_cast<sycl::errc_for<sycl::backend::opencl>>(0)`
```

  `error_category_for<>::default_error_condition(value)` should be equal to
  `std::error_condition(value, sycl::error_category_for<sycl::backend::opencl>())`

=== sycl::errc

> For all values from spec:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For all values of the enum class `sycl::errc`
```

or something like that, so that the test plan doesn't go stale too soon

* `runtime`
* `kernel`
* `accessor`
* `nd_range`
* `event`
* `kernel_argument`
* `build`
* `invalid`
* `memory_allocation`
* `platform`
* `profiling`
* `feature_not_supported`
* `kernel_not_supported`
* `backend_mismatch`

check that:

> * that they exsist
> * that all values are different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* they exist
* all values are different
```

Special cases:

* Check that `std::is_error_code_enum` is `true` for `sycl::errc`

> * Check that `std::is_error_condition_enum` should be `false` for `sycl::err`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Check that `std::is_error_condition_enum` should be `false` for `sycl::errc`
```

I believe?

=== sycl::errc_for

* Check that enum class template exists

If SYCL_BACKEND_OPENCL is defined check that

* enum class with `b == sycl::backend::opencl` exists

> * there is value 0

Reviewer 3: looks like it's not possible to verify the C++ enum contains specific integral value, but still we can verify that `errc_for<sycl::backend::opencl>` is a scoped enum type
if `errc_for` is a scoped enumeration type we are safe to use **0** value for scoped enums

* `std::is_error_code_enum` is `true`

> * `std::is_error_condition` is `false`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `std::is_error_condition_enum` is `false`
```

`exception(std::error_code ec,  const std::string& what_arg)`

==== exception(context ctx, int ev, const std::error_category& cat, const std::string& what_arg)

Same as `exception(context ctx, int ev, const std::error_category& cat, const std::string& what_arg)`

==== exception( const exception& other )

For any constructor from 12 constructors above
make same checks as for the original constructor

==== operator = ()

* For any constructor from 12 constructors above as SRC object:
  for any second constructor from 12 constructors above as DST object:
  make same checks as for the SRC constructor
* ensure copy assignment doesn't throw

=== sycl::exception_list

Verify that:

* `value_type` `std::is_same` with `std::exception_ptr`
* `reference` `std::is_same` with `value_type&`
* `const_reference` `std::is_same` with `const value_type&`
* `size_type` `std::is_same` with `std::size_t`
* `iterator` satisfies `LegacyForwardIterator`
* `const_iterator` satisfies `LegacyForwardIterator`

For default-constructed `exception_list` check that:

* `exception_list::size()` is zero
* `++exception_list::begin()` is equal to `exception_list::end()`

=== sycl::async_handler

> Check that `sycl::async_handler` std_is same with `std::function<void(sycl::exception_list)>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check that `sycl::async_handler` `std::is_same` with `std::function<void(sycl::exception_list)>`
```

For cases:

* `queue::wait_and_throw()`
* `queue::throw_asynchronous()`
* `event::wait_and_throw()`
* on queue destruction
* on context destruction
* on buffer destruction

> check when there is no exceptions expected it is not be invoked

Reviewer: ```suggestion
check that when there are no exceptions expected then the async handler is not invoked.
```

=== Synchronous exceptions mechanism

> Check an empty `queue::submit()` doesn't result in exceptions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check an empty `queue::submit()` doesn't result in exceptions.
```

==== exception(context ctx, std::error_code ec, const std::string& what_arg)

Same as `exception(context ctx, std::error_code ec)`, but:
same checks for `what_arg` as for
`exception(std::error_code ec,  const std::string& what_arg)`

==== exception(context ctx, std::error_code ec, const char* what_arg)
Same as `exception(context ctx, std::error_code ec, const std::string& what_arg)`

==== exception(context ctx, int env, const std::error_category& cat, const std::string& what_arg)

Same as `exception(context ctx, int env, const std::error_category& cat)`, but:
same checks for `what_arg` as for
`exception(std::error_code ec,  const std::string& what_arg)`

==== exception(context ctx, int env, const std::error_category& cat, const std::string& what_arg)

Same as `exception(context ctx, int env, const std::error_category& cat, const std::string& what_arg)`

==== exception( const exception& other )

For default constructor and any other 12 constructors
make same checks as for the original constructor

==== operator = ()

* For any constructor from (default constructor and 12 other constructors) as SRC object:

>   for any second constructor from ( default and 12 custom constructors) as DST object:

Reviewer 5: Again, there is no default constructor.

  make same checks as for the SRC constructor
* ensure copy assignment doesn't throw

=== sycl::exception_list

Verify that:

* `value_type` `std::is_same` with `std::exception_ptr`
* `reference` `std::is_same` with `value_type&`
* `const_reference` `std::is_same` with `const value_type&`
* `size_type` `std::is_same` with `std::size_t`
* `iterator` satisfies `LegacyForwardIterator`
* `const_iterator` satisfies `LegacyForwardIterator`
* `exception_list::size()` is zero

> * `++exception_list::begin()` is equal to `exception_list::end()`

Reviewer 5: I presume these last two tests will be performed on a default-constructed `exception_list`?

Every method should be checked for accordance to spec:

> * Method existence

Reviewer 6: Member function existence

* Const correctness
* Type of result

> * Result for noexcept() operator

Reviewer 6: `noexcept()`

> If `SYCL_BACKEND_OPENCL` is defined run same checks as for sycl_category, but:

Reviewer 6: `sycl_category`
